>> Zac: This is shifting in big part,
because I got talk about WordPress
recently added API to its core.
That now the WordPress bubble is kind
of intercepting with this much larger
JavaScript bubble and there is a lot
more that you can do with JavaScript and
server side that might not work with
WordPress and just a sheer number of
people developing JavaScript apps,
I don't know the actual peer numbers.
WordPress powers a huge
portion of the Internet, but
the JavaScript development
world is a huge one.
So WordPress developers
are coming out of this.
In the past, they could know just
a little bit of jQuery and get by for
years with everything that they needed to.
But now we're needing to learn things like
frameworks, like view, and react, and
tools like Web Pack and run and command
line and NPM and yarn and all that.
So this is shifting for them and for
those people who already know these skills
in the JavaScript world like I said, it's
a great way to come into the WordPress
space both for work and for
leveraging what WordPress can do for you.
So WordPress was forked from
another free version of blogging
software in the early 2000s, and
it has had a very interesting
history of JavaScript in it.
So there's this talk that
I'll share link out later,
in fact, should I just throw this in the,
well, no.
Search for his name and
then JavaScript past, present, and future.
This is a 15 minute flash talk, and he
starts off at the very beginning talking
about the 300 lines of JavaScript that
were in one file when they started.
And now, 30% or somewhere around there,
of WordPress is built in JavaScript.
So over that time,
we've seen a lot of different
little admin features added,
making this a little bit easier,
starting off with adding some buttons,
and then TMCE eventually,
which is JavaScript driven, and
then some bigger things were implemented.
We have things like the customizer,
which is the first single page web app
experience built inside WordPress and
it let's you change all these
features like menus and widgets.
It doesn't add the content directly but
your site name and
you could swap out themes and things like
that, and see all of it live and preview.
So this is a single web page experience,
and
it's not using any major
frameworks behind the scenes.
It has its own JavaScript API,
and it's pretty powerful.
This was added in a time,
we have other features
like,
>> Zac: Wait for it, it's so worth it.
>> Zac: The media library, so, a pretty
robust media library where you can drag
and drop images,
you can move stuff around easily.
You can just drag stuff on into
the browser and it will load.
And not just images, but
videos, other things as well.
It has some embed technology, so you can
just paste a YouTube link in there and
it will automatically reform
it into a embedded URL.
This was built in backbone and
at the time,
a lot of thinking went into making that
decision of what framework should be used,
and it allowed a lot of things to be done
that weren't able to be done before.
Also, because it's in core,
it was used for other projects, so
we also have things like post revisions,
which is a way to basically scroll
along a bar and see left and
right differences between different posts.
So if you have an about page and you've
edited over the course of a year and
changed things,
you could just drag something and
see the two previews
side-by-side of the differences.
Again, moving more into that
single page web app experience.
So there is stuff in WordPress
core that uses JavaScript and
it's increasing more and more.